---
layout: post
title:  "Test"
date:   2020-10-22 10:00:00 +0800
categories: ['Analytics', 'Advance-Visualisation']
---

## Introduction

## Problem Statement

The new format for the SAT was released in March 2016. As an employee of the College Board - the organization that administers the SAT - <b style="color:magenta">you are a part of a team that tracks statewide participation and recommends where money is best spent to improve SAT participation rates.</b>

## Executive Summary

**Summary of findings**
    
SAT & ACT are the 2 standardized test used by many colleges in US as part of their admission decision process. Juniors and seniors in high school usually take these tests to demonstrate their readiness for college level work. Both tests are designed to different way to measure college readiness and predict future academic success.

After a new format of SAT was released, we would like to see how it perform against it's competitor - ACT in term of popularity (measured by participation rate) among high school students as the standardized test for their college admission.

We shall limit the scope of our analysis to states that have SAT participation rate in 2018 that are more than 50%. Other factors may be in play for states which have less 50% participation rate, eg. strong political affiliation to ACT and more data will be necessary which is beyond the scope of this project.


**Key Observations**
<ul>
    <li>SAT & ACT participation rates in each states are mostly inversely related. An increase in one often mean a decrease in another.</li><br>
    <li>Negative correlation between participation rate and respective test scores for both SAT & ACT</li><br>
    <li>Year-on-year participation in both states tends to remain the same. Exception for Illinois & Colorado where there are policy changes.</li><br>
    <li>Preference for one test over the other maybe geographically driven - coastal states preferring SAT over ACT.</li>    
</ul>


**Additional observation**
<ul>
    <li>We discover states such as Illinois & Colorado have almost a 90% jump in participation rate in 2018 compared to 2017. This may be due to the new format of SAT and various new initiatives such as SAT 'school day' event and educational investment by state.</li><br>
    <li>States which do not have specific preferred test (states that have more than 50% participation rate in both SAT & ACT) also see a marginal increase in SAT participation rate in 2018.</li>  
</ul>


Based on analysis of the data & additional research, I choose Florida as the next state we can invest in. The reason for choosing the state are as follow:
<ol>
    <li>Florida is the 3rd largest state in term of population which means that there are likely to have more students participating in college admission test.</li><br>
    <li>As an investment risk mitigation option, we may not be able to replicate the success case of Illinois & Colorado, low SAT to high SAT participation rate. Using Florida, which already have close to 50% participation rate in both SAT and ACT, it is likely to have less 'barrier to entry' for students to switch from ACT to SAT since they may be familiar with the structure of both exam.</li><br>
    <li>Florida is committed to make big investment into education, hence it is highly likely to win political favor in expanding into Florida, given that our part of our current initiatives (free online review/classes) can contribute to more students being admitted to college.</li> 
</ol> 

In addition, I believe that we should continue & expand current initiatives to other states which still show weakness in SAT participation rate (>50% but below 75%) based on previous year (2018). This way, we are likely to see improvement in participation rate year-on-year across all states going forward.

{% include portfolio/TP.html %}

